# Question 1
Say I have a form on a page with an input for a user's email and password. When you click the submit button, suddenly, the url goes from:

```plaintext
https://localhost:8000/
```
to this:
```plaintext
https://localhost:8000/?email=tom%40gmail.com&password=123456
```

The whole page refreshed as well. Why did that happen, and how can we stop it?

# Answer
When you click a `submit` button on a form, the reason that the page refreshes and the URL changes is due to the **default behaviors** built into HTML form submissions.

For context, HTML `<form>` elements are designed to take in user input and send that data to the server via an HTTP request. This request is determined by the form's `action` and `method` attributes:

- `action`: Specifies the URL to which the data should be sent to.
- `method`: Specifies how the data should be sent, using either `GET` or `POST`.

If no `method` is specified with the `action` attribute, the form defaults to the `GET` method. However, if neither the `action` nor `method` attributes are specified, ***by default***, the form will submit to the current URL using the `GET` method.

This results in the form data being appended to the end of the URL as **query parameters**, as seen in the example snippet given. The part after the `?` in the URL is known as the query string, which contains key=value pairs separated by an `&`.

So, as part of their default behavior, submitting a form triggers this entire process of sending its data to the server. This inherent action is what then causes the page to reload in order to display the server's response.

To stop this default behavior of refreshing on submission, one would have to use JavaScript to intercept the event. This is commonly done in modern web applications using **AJAX (Asynchronous JavaScript and XML)**. <sup>Noting that JSON is now the preferred method for data exchange, not XLM.</sup>

```js
//preventing form submission's default behavior
const form = document.querySelector('form'); 
form.addEventListener('submit', (event) => { 
  event.preventDefault();
});

//preventing submit button's default behavior (if used in a form)
const form = document.querySelector('#submit-button'); 
form.addEventListener('click', (event) => { 
  event.preventDefault();
});
```
In this code snippet, we added an event listener to the target element that intercepts submit events and prevents their default action of the page refreshing by invoking the `preventDefault()` property on them.

# Teacher Feedback
Score: 3/3
This is correct! Great explanation