# Question 2
Why do you need labels for every input? What are the two ways to associate a label with an input?

# Answer
We need labels for every input in order to **make our webpages accessible to all**. They ensure that anyone can navigate and interact with a webpage effectively, promoting inclusivity and preventing discrimination.

- **Screen Readers**: Labels allow screen readers to read aloud the purpose of each form input, so users who rely on these tools understand what each field is for.

- **Clickable Area:** Labels also increase the surface area of clickable inputs. For users with motor control difficulties, such as those with Parkinson's or arthritis, this makes interacting with small elements like checkboxes much easier.

There are **two ways** to associate a label with an input:

1. **Using ARIA Attributes:** With the `aria-label` or `aria-labelledby` attribute, we can give any element a description that screen readers can utilize. ARIA stands for Accessible Rich Internet Applications and defines methods to enhance web accessibility for people with disabilities.
   - For example, if we have a form header, we should use the `aria-labelledby` attribute to link the header with the form id so that our non-seeing users can see it too.

2. **Using the label Element:** You can either link a `label` directly to an `input` or nest the `input` within the `label`.
   - To directly link them, we specify the associated input id in the label's `for` attribute:
      ```html
      <label for="name">Name:</label>
      <input type="text" id="name" name="username" />
      ```
   - Or we can nest the input within the label, which doesn’t require specifying the label's `for` attribute:
      ```html
      <label>
        Name: <input type="text" id="name" name="username"/>
      </label>
      ```

Using labels ensures that our sites are accessible to all and contributes to a more inclusive online environment.

# Teacher Feedback